So a question, has there ever been a time in your life when you rebelled for something you like?
I came out of the womb rebelling.
When my mom and dad said something to me, I look at them and I would say, no.
And you've been rebelling ever since.
Every rule, every authority, I want to do it my way.
I like it that way.
And you're rebelling is loud.
It's out there.
It's not quiet or private, but some of you,
Aren't that loud, obvious rebel?
You're more like the quiet rebel.
You know, that speed limit, 55, that's for people who don't know how to drive.
I can drive my own speed.
That limit for when you can buy alcohol that didn't apply to me when I was a teenager, because you know, I had my way.
I'm like more of the fairest bueller, like I sort of like lie and cheat and skip school and make this little web and
And well, rebellion, whether it's quiet or loud, it has a consequence.
And today we're going to see how rebellion leads to the death of thousands, tens of thousands of people because we're going to watch Absalom, David's son, lead of rebellion.
It's going to start small, the little elements, the ingredients of pride, desire, ambition,
some brokenness, some rejections, some internal disappointments, some lack of communication.
And we're going to watch the ingredients of this rebellion.
And I want you to see that when you see this rebellion, we can also see a picture of us.
This is our human rebellion because all of us have rebelled and all of us have done things we regret and enjoyed certain moments that we didn't think would come back to haunt us or to bite us.
And as we think about this rebellion,
And as we think about our rebellion, I also want you to think about another rebellion, the first rebellion that ever happened.
Our spiritual parents, Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden.
And God gave them this beautiful freedom.
And they took that freedom and they used it to rebel against God to say, God, we don't want to do it your way.
We want to do it our way.
And all that that rebellion has caused, see, rebellion starts so innocently.
It seems so small, so incremental, but it could be so destructive.
And so where are we in the story?
Well, David's son, Amnon, has raped his own sister, and David does nothing.
Absalom takes revenge against Amnon and kills him two years later, and David does nothing.
Now, Absalom has been an exile for three years.
And David wants to be restored to his son, and Absalom doesn't have any communication.
And that's where Joab, the general of David, steps in.
Second Samuel chapter 14.
Joab, the son of Zoriah, knew that the king's heart longed for Absalom.
So Joab sent someone to Tkoa and had a wise woman brought from there.
And he said to her, pretend you are in mourning.
Dress in mourning clothes and don't use any cosmetic lotions.
act like a woman who has spent many days grieving for the dead.
Then go to the king and speak these words to him, and Joab put the words in her mouth.
What's happening?
Joab knows that David is stuck.
His heart is closed.
He doesn't want to talk about it.
He doesn't know how to talk about it, but he's had all these traumas in his own family, and he's not really good at dealing with these family issues.
And so Joab's like, well, I know how Nathan got David to see what was going on in his own life.
So I'm going to do the same thing.
I'm going to get a woman.
I'm going to get her to wear these clothes like she's a morning widow.
She's not going to have any lotion.
She's going to share the story that I put in her mouth.
And so Joab puts this story in the mouth of this widow to get past David's defense mechanisms to get to his heart.
And so this widow says, I'm from Tacoma.
I'm from a distance.
And my husband, he died and I had two sons.
And my two sons were working in the field, and one got mad at the other, and he killed him.
And now the people in the town, they want to take the only son I have left who killed his brother, and they want to kill him too, which leaves me with no descendants and no heirs.
And no one to take care of me, and I'll be all alone.
It's like this burning coal of my life will be extinguished.
King, please show mercy to the only living son that I have.
David has moved with compassion.
For this widow who's only got one son left and he said, not one hair of your son's head will perish.
I will protect him with the royal proclamation.
In other words, everything I can do, I will protect your son.
Even though he's guilty of murder, I'll protect him for you.
In verse 13, the woman responds, why then have you devised a thing like this against the people of God?
When the king says this, does he not convict himself?
For the king has not brought back his banish son, like water spilled on the ground, which cannot be recovered, so he must die.
But that is not what God desires.
Rather, he devises ways so that a banished person does not remain banished from him.
The same way Nathan got David, she tells a story, and the story is actually about David.
David offers mercy to this son and this mom, and she says, well, why have
You're not done the same thing you're about to do for me for your own son.
Absalom murdered his brother, and now he's banished, and she presents this idea of the gospel.
Isn't there a way that even when water is spilled, that God can bring about restoration?
Isn't it God's heart that even when you do a stupid thing, even you know it's wrong, that there is a way back to God?
How many of you are glad that we serve a God of second chances that no matter what you've done, no matter what you said, no matter how long you've run,
There is a way back.
And so David looks at this old widow, and he's like, she got me.
And he says to this, well, I have a question.
Did Joy put you up to this?
And she said, yes, my king, you're very wise.
Yes, Joy, your general put me up to this.
And David looks at Job and Job falls on his face.
And just as a king, I want to
Thank you for showing mercy and for doing the right thing.
And so the king sends Joab to go and get Absalom from his place of exile.
Look at verse 23.
Then Joab went together and brought Absalom back to Jerusalem.
But the king said he must go to his own house.
He must not see my face.
So Absalom went to his own house and did not see the face of the king.
Now in all of Israel, there was not a man so highly praised for his handsome appearance as Absalom.
From the top of his head to the solvus foot, there was no blemish in him.
Whenever he cut the hair of his head, he used to cut his hair once a year because it became too heavy for him.
And he would weigh it.
And his weight was 200 shekels by the royal standard.
That's five pounds of hair every year.
Wow.
I mean, I remember when I used to cut my hair.
Yes.
Five pounds a year.
What a drag.
The headaches and everything.
I'm glad they're gone.
Anyway.
Verse 27, three sons and a daughter were born to Absalom.
His daughter's name was Tamar, and she became a beautiful woman.
And Absalom lived two years in Jerusalem without seeing the king's face.
Well, what's happening here?
I mean, Absalom and David haven't had a conversation for five years.
And finally, David Relent says, bring him back from exile, but then he says, he can live in the same city as me, but we're not going to have a conversation.
Think about that.
David does not want to deal with this issue.
Maybe it's his conviction of his own sin that maybe caused all this.
Maybe he's still mad at Absalom for killing his brother.
Maybe he's mad at himself for whatever reason.
He does not want to look his son in the face and Absalom feels that rejection, that father wound.
And it's also being fueled by things going on in him that maybe he hasn't processed, like he named his daughter,
after his sister who was raped and now lives in this defile, this place of exile.
And so the same description of these two women, they're both beautiful.
Maybe he's trying to go back in time.
Maybe he's trying to figure it out.
And add on to all that on the outside.
I mean, he's the man.
I mean, when he walks by every single head turns, no blemish in his entire body.
He's charismatic.
He's a leader.
He's a person who looks like a king.
And he's long-flowing hair.
You can't help but look twice at Absalom and say, man, he really looks like a king.
And so on the outside, this beautiful picture of what a leader looks like on the inside, a very troubled young man trying to deal with his demons and his past and all the injustices and his absence from his father and just give that enough time.
And it will lead to a rebellion.
So he's in Jerusalem for two years in verse 29, then Absalom sends for Joab to order him to send
him to the king, but Joab refused to come to him.
So he sent a second time, but he refused to come.
Then he said to his servants, look, Joab's field is next to mine and he has barley there.
Go and set it on fire.
So Absalom's servants set the field on fire.
Then Joab did go to Absalom's house and he said to him, why have your servants set my field on fire?
Absalom said to Joab, look, I sent word to you and said, come here so I can send you to the king to ask.
Why have I come from Gesher?
It would have been better if I were still there.
Now then, I want to see the king's face, and if I'm guilty of anything, let him put me to death."
So Job went to the king and told him this.
Then the king summoned Absalom, and he came in and bowed down with his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom.
What's happening in this moment, you see this young man who's
highly charismatic and very good-looking and looks a lot like a king who's deeply troubled.
And you see this anger starting to come out of him.
Like, he wants to see the king.
Joe won't respond to his message.
So I'll get Joe's attention.
I'm going to burn down his entire field.
You can see the rage started to seep out of this calm, cool, collected young man who's nursed.
These hurts for years.
He finally gets Joe Abb's attention.
And he says something remarkable.
It's like, listen,
If I'm guilty of something, then the king should kill me himself.
Is Absalom guilty of something?
Yeah, he murdered his brother.
But somehow he's forgotten all that and thinks it should go on like it never went before.
This very bizarre meeting of father and son happens.
Absalom is brought in by Joab.
He bows down to his father.
His father kisses him.
And it's all better, right?
No conversation.
I mean, think about what's happening in this moment.
Forgiveness without repentance, there's no apology, there's no sense of sorrow about all the things that have gone on between them.
And there's no conversation about the silent treatment for five years, restoration without any resolution.
Let's just not talk about it and let's pretend like everything is okay.
How many of you know that doesn't work?
And this is what's happening in this moment.
And so what do you do with that?
You give it a little more time.
Look at the next verse.
In the course of time, more time goes by.
Absalom provided himself with a chariot and horses and with 50 men to run ahead of him.
And he would get up early and stand by the side of the road leading to the city gate.
And whenever anyone came with the complaint to be placed before the king for a decision, Absalom would call out to him.
What town are you from?
And he would answer your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel.
Then Absalom would say to him, look,
Your claims are valid and proper, but there's no representative of the king to hear you."
And Absalom would add, if only I were appointed judge in the land, then everyone who has a complaint or case could come to me, and I would see that they would receive justice.
Also, whenever anyone approached him to bow down before him, Absalom would reach out his hand, take hold of him, and kiss him.
And Absalom behaved in this way toward all the Israelites who came to the king asking for justice,
And so he stole the hearts of the people of Israel.
What's happening?
Well, Aslam is the comeback story of the year.
He is time magazine's man of the year because he was just in exile for three years.
He was in Jerusalem for two years.
He was the one who killed his brother.
There was no way he would ever come back.
been kissed by the king.
He's sitting at the city gates.
He's got 50 guys running in front of his chariot.
He's got 50 hype men that are talking about how amazing this guy is.
And I asked our team, like, what do you think Absalom would look like today if we could get an image of him?
And here's the image they came up with.
Come on, girls.
The girl's like, oh, man.
It's hard to look away, man.
He's so handsome.
Look at that hair.
I mean, no blemish.
Five pounds of hair every year and charismatic.
I mean, when you talk to him, he would look you in the eyes.
And he was good with the common people.
I mean, he would kiss everyone.
Rich or poor, young or old.
He's kissing babies.
He's shaking people's hands.
He's saying, you know, if I was king, if I was the king, well, I would get justice for you.
I don't know why my dad is so busy.
I don't know why the king is so busy.
He can't hear your basic complaint and do something about it.
On the outside, he has the perfect image of the king.
And if you're with us for the entire book of First Sammy, he is Saul 2.0.
The head tall is an everyone on the outside.
It looks like a king, sounds like a king, acts like a king.
Everyone would follow someone who looks like that, but inside, deeply troubled, deeply angry, deeply driven by desire, trying to figure out who he is and who he wants to be.
And so he's creating division.
He sits at the city gate and he's stirring dissatisfaction in the people.
You see, you look at any leader and you're gonna find decisions they make that you're not always gonna agree with, decisions they make even if it's the right decision that might not benefit you.
And so he does what any divisive person does.
They just sit at the city gate and hears their complaints and says, well, if I was the king, I would do it differently.
And here's the thing, most divisive people
don't see themselves as divisive.
Absolom could say, look, everything I said at that city gate was true, and it was.
Their situation wasn't right.
They needed to hear someone, to hear their case, and they need someone to dispense justice.
And David was too busy being king and doing all that stuff, and he couldn't meet with them.
That was all true, but the way you do it, well, for Absolom was filled with a shrewdness, a cunning.
It wasn't that he cared for the people that met at the city gate, and we're gonna find out in a minute what he's gonna do with that.
He's building a case that he should be king.
He's building a case that the people should follow him and not David.
And Proverbs chapter six, talks about six things that God hates, seven that are detestable to him.
Listen to this list, a proud look, that's absolute, a lime tongue, a heart that devises wicked schemes, feet that are swift to rush to evil, sowing dissension or discord among brothers.
He's doing all of these things
And more.
And in this process, he steals the hearts of the people of Israel.
They look at the image and they are taken by this good-looking, articulate, charismatic leader.
Verse 7, at the end of four years, give it enough time.
Absalom said to the king, let me go to Hebron and fulfill a vow I made to the Lord.
He says to his dad, hey, when I was in exile, I said, God, if you ever get me out of exile back to Jerusalem, I'm going to go and offer you burnt offerings and worship you at Hebron.
This is totally a fabrication.
It's totally a lie.
David says, go in peace, go make your offering to the Lord.
And in verse 10, Absalom sent secret messengers throughout the tribes of Israel and said, as soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then say, Absalom is king in Hebron.
And 200 men from Jerusalem had accompanied Absalom.
And they'd been invited guests and went quite innocently, knowing nothing about the matter.
And while Absalom was offering sacrifices, he sent for Hithafel, the Gila Knight, David's counselor, to come from Gila, his hometown.
And so the conspiracy gained strength, and Absalom's following kept on increasing.
What does Absolom do?
He lies to his dad.
I have to go to Hebron.
I need to make sacrifices.
He brings 200 men.
They don't know what's going on.
And he sort of forces their hand to say, hey, are you with me or not?
Because now you're not in Jerusalem.
You're with me.
And they're caught up in all this.
And so this conspiracy starts to grow and gain strength.
And look at who joins the conspiracy at the very beginning.
David's chief advisor joins the conspiracy, a man named Hithafel.
Now what we find out is a Hithafel is the grandfather of a woman named Bathsheba.
Oh, that means for all those years, a Hithafel, David's right hand guy, had been dealing with all this resentment himself and anger himself at his own king, had an adulterous affair with his granddaughter and killed her husband and married her.
Whatever happened there didn't really get talked about, but when the rebellion conspiracy started, it was right over there with Absalom because they both have this angst, this beef, this brokenness inside of them, and the rebellion gains strength.
Verse 13, a messenger came and told David, the hearts of the people of Israel are with Absalom.
Then David said to all his officials who were with him in Jerusalem, come, we must flee or none of us will escape from Absalom.
We must leave immediately or he will more quickly move to overtake us and bring ruin on us and put the city to the sword.
The king's officials answered him, your servants are ready to do whatever our Lord the king chooses.
The king set out with his entire household following him and he left 10 concubines to take care of the palace.
So the king set out with all the people following him and they all halted at the edge of the city and all his men passed him.
along with the charathites, the palathites, and the 600 get-tights who had accompanied him from Gath, and they marched before the king.
Think about how quickly the tide has turned.
Think about how quickly things can change like this.
One moment David is king, sitting on his throne.
Sure, he's got family problems.
Sure, he's got issues, but he's not thinking.
A conspiracy is gonna lead to a rebellion that's gonna lead to him having to leave his palace and leave the city and have all the men who fought to get into the city to establish the kingdom.
Now he has to walk out in front of them and they have to march in front of him.
And I don't know if you've ever done something foolish and you have that feeling like, you know, now I have the consequences of this decision on me and how it's gonna affect my family and other people and you're walking out of the city.
And you can't go back, you can't undo it.
You can only just accept it.
And this is David.
He knows his secret sin with Bathsheba put all of this into motion.
And he feels the weight of this.
And in verse 19, the king says to Itai the get tight.
Why should you come along with us?
Go back and stay with King Absalom.
You're a foreigner and exile from your homeland.
You came only yesterday and today shall I make you wander with us when I don't know where I'm going?
Go back, take your people with you, may the Lord show you kindness and faithfulness.
But it's I replied to the king, surely as the Lord lives and as my Lord the king lives, wherever my Lord the king may be, whether it means life or death, there will your servant be.
And David said to Itai, go ahead, march on.
So Itai to get tight marched on with all of his men and the families that were with him.
and the whole countryside wept aloud as all the people passed by.
And the king also crossed the Kidron Valley and all the people moved on toward the wilderness.
Again, this long, slow, sad march, soldiers, families walking away from the city of God toward the wilderness.
And it's interesting when crisis occurs,
You see what's in the heart of people.
Crisis has a way to reveal what people are actually thinking and feeling.
When David is king and he has firm control and power of the kingdom, everyone's like, yes, and you're great, and it's all good.
But the moment he begins to lose power, we're gonna watch people that look like friends turn to enemies.
And we're gonna watch people like Itai, who it doesn't make any sense for him to follow King David.
He's a Philistine.
The Philistines are the sworn enemies of Israel.
And yet, during crisis, it's revealed the loyalty of this man and his 600 men to David.
He's like, David, I'm not gonna be loyal to a King Absalom, I don't know.
Wherever you go, whether you live or die, I'm gonna go with you, I'm bringing my family, I'm bringing my friends because I know that God is over your life and I've chosen to follow you.
This beautiful loyalty that you don't expect.
And in our lives, the same thing is true.
When crisis occurs,
When you go from here to here, you'll see who your real friends are and who they are.
And next week, we're gonna watch, people you think would be loyal, turn, and people you thought that would turn, be loyal, and this is the beautiful way that God reveals what's in the human heart, in the middle of a rebellion.
This is verse 24, Zadok was there too, and all the Levites who were with him were carrying the Ark of the Covenant of God.
They sat down in the Ark of God,
And Abiathar offered sacrifices until all the people had finished leaving the city.
Then the king said to Zadok, take the ark of God back into the city.
If I find favor in the Lord's eyes, he will bring me back and let me see it and is dwelling place again.
But if he says, I'm not pleased with you, then I am ready to let him do to me whatever seems good to him.
Now this is an act of supreme faith.
As he's getting ready to leave and as some of the key soldiers leave, the priests are like, let's bring the Ark of the Covenant.
Let's bring the manifest presence of God is with this chest cover with gold with the Ten Commandments.
This is where God shows up.
We need God's presence with us as we go.
And David's like, no, no, no, I'm not taking the Ark of the Covenant with me.
Remember, this was the idea and the first
couple of chapters of the first standard where the people were disconnected from God, but they thought that they bring the Ark of the Covenant into battle.
It's gonna be like a good luck charm they're gonna win.
David's like, I'm not trying to use the Ark of the Covenant like a good luck charm.
Listen, I know I deserve this discipline, this punishment of God.
I'm not gonna try to bring a good luck charm with me.
If God wants me to go back into the city and be king again, then he'll bring me back.
And if not, but he's not, notice he's not blaming other people.
He's not making excuses.
He's not pretending.
But he's also not resigned like my whole life is over.
He's like, God's in control, I trust him.
And though I feel weak and know this looks like I can't recover from it, I'm gonna put my faith and my trust in the God who brought me from being a shepherd boy watching my dad's sheep.
And there's something beautiful that happens here.
And if you wanna know what he's actually thinking and feeling, just read Psalm 41 and Psalm 61 and Psalm 62.
He talks about how weak he feels at this moment and how much he wants to trust in God at this moment.
And that's the beautiful thing about the beauty of God's word.
We get all these different images of what is going on in David's heart and head at this moment.
At this moment, he's not trying to control.
He's holding on to power very loosely.
Again, a beautiful picture to us that when things start to fall apart, one of the worst things we can do is fight for control, to get people to be on our side, to make sure we can make it okay.
David does none of those
In fact, verse 30 gives us one more image of him walking out of Jerusalem.
But David continued up the Mount of Olives, weeping as he went.
His head was covered and he was barefoot.
And all the people with him covered their heads too and were weeping as they went up.
Again, this image.
David's walking by his soldiers.
His soldiers are walking by him.
People are crying.
His head is covered in morning.
He's barefoot.
He's the king.
His royal robes are not a thing anymore.
He's in this moment of just sheer sadness, knowing he can't undo the stupid things he did, knowing this is the discipline of God that Nathan told him would come, knowing it's affecting him, it's affecting his kids, it's affecting other people.
It's a lot like the image of Adam and Eve walking out of Eden, the first rebellion, knowing they sinned against God, they ate the forbidden fruit, and they couldn't go back to Eden.
didn't mean their lives were over, but it means they would have to go through this season of discipline that there was going to be hope on the other side, but it was going to be a difficult journey.
Next week, we're going to see the different friends and enemies that are revealed as a result of this rebellion, but I want to talk about how this applies to us.
We read about this rebellion, we see the rebellion of the first rebellion in the Garden of Eden, but we also have to see ourselves.
Like what can I learn from this?
So two lessons from David and two lessons from Absalom.
The first lesson from David and we see this is, passivity has a price.
Passivity has a price.
Doing nothing is a choice.
Often we think like, well, I'll delay this decision, I'll make it later, and then I'll have this conversation, I'll do it later, I'll go to college later, I'll pay off this debt later, I'll stop drinking later, I'll do all this later, and later, never comes.
Not making a decision is a decision, and it's interesting that David has this passivity in one particular area of his life.
As a king, he's very decisive.
As a warrior, he's very decisive.
in building the temple for Solomon, he's very decisive, but in his parenting of his children.
There's this passivity.
In fact, later on, describing his son Adonaija, the Bible describes David as a father in this way.
Now, his father, King David, had never disciplined him at any time, even by asking, why are you doing that?
Think about that.
A description of David's parenting is he never looked at his sons and said, why are you doing that?
He didn't apply discipline to their life.
That was because he felt guilty about his own sin, his own stuff, and he felt like a hypocrite by disciplining them.
Was it because he was too busy with his kingdom?
Was it because just by nature he was passive as a parent?
The Bible doesn't exactly say, but there's a warning for parents who sort of say, I'm just gonna be passive.
And here's the warning, it's discipline.
It's Proverbs chapter 19 verse 18, it says this.
Discipline your children, for in that there is hope.
Do not be a willing party to their death."
That might seem like a heavy, heavy scripture for parents, but listen, David had three sons that died because he failed to discipline them.
Amnon, Absalom, Adonaija.
Who wrote that proverb?
Solomon, the only son he disciplined.
So listen closely.
Maybe you think your whole life, I haven't been a parent who engages with my kids.
I've been passive.
I've been sitting and watching.
I don't know what to say.
Maybe I have my own stuff.
And listen, there's still hope for you to engage.
There's still hope for you to say, I want to step away from passivity and be proactive in the life of my sons and my daughters.
One of the reasons we do a parenting class, I told you to scan that code, is because so many of his group and families worry like, I don't know,
how to parent, I didn't know how to be a good dadder, how to be a good mom, how do I learn?
You learn by the Christian community coming together and saying, here's some lessons you can learn in this process and you take a step of initiative.
Because the reality is rules without a relationship lead to rebellion.
David's trying to punish Absalom by just putting him in exile and keeping him away, but there's no relationship there.
And because there's
a consequence or discipline without relationship, it leads to this rebellion.
What does God do when Adam and Eve sin, when they rebel?
He doesn't turn his face.
He steps toward them.
God steps toward us in our rebellion.
Why are you hiding?
Who told you you were naked?
What did you
What does God do?
He's drawing them out of hiding, out of shame, out of that.
There's going to be a consequence, there's going to be a discipline, but God wants to reestablish the relationship.
And we want to be people who move toward our kids, if you're a parent, toward our kids in those moments.
Now, how many of you know that raising kids is hard?
If you're single, you're like, ah, that's easy.
That's good.
You don't have kids yet.
All right.
Listen.
And the older your kids get, the harder it is.
If you're raising adult children, you know it's even harder than you thought, right?
When they're little, maybe like put them in timeout, don't push your brother, don't hold your brother underwater, maybe give them a spanking because they lie or they steal something you want to teach them a lesson.
Maybe when they get older, you're like, hey, you know, your phone's going to go missing for a couple of days as a consequence, as a discipline.
But there are certain moments where you're like, I don't know how this is going to go.
I mean, raising in three teenage boys, there was one moment in one of our sons in particular who resisted discipline.
And there was a moment that he did something really stupid.
Like, really dumb and not like, okay.
I know I need to discipline him.
My wife and I agreed on the discipline.
It was gonna be, it was gonna hurt.
And so I sit on the edge of his bed.
I still remember this moment as a dad.
Brandlord, just help him to receive this.
And someone I once told me, when you discipline your kids, just put your hand in physical contact with them and look them in the eyes.
And so I put my hand on his foot and look in the eye and I'm like, well, this was a,
A big fail.
I mean, you've done some dumb things.
This was the dumbest of all.
And here's what's going to happen.
And I laid it out.
You're going to lose this, and this, and this, and this, and this is how long it's going to be.
And even though this is something that you probably don't like and won't agree with, I want to know that I love you.
And I want you to know that you're going to make it past this.
And you're going to grow as a man because you endure this discipline in the right way.
And I remember
for one of the first times in his life he didn't fight back.
He was angry, but he didn't fight.
And that was a beautiful answer to prayer because he received the discipline that I gave him as a dad because I loved him.
It would have been the easiest thing to not walk in that room and go through the stress of that difficult conversation, but that's what he needed and that's what I needed to do.
And so if you think about an area of your life, whether you're as a parent or maybe you've never had kids, an area where you were passive,
And you think about, because I didn't make a decision, what happened?
Well, if you think hard enough, you'll think that passivity does have a price.
And we watch David soak that in in this moment.
But we also watch him do something beautiful.
He doesn't fight God's discipline.
So if David could say something to you, he would say, don't fight God's discipline.
He walks out of Jerusalem and realizing, this is on me.
All this stuff is on me.
And he also realizes that his sins are gonna visit his kids and his grandkids, like Exodus 34 says to the third and fourth generation.
That our sins as mothers and fathers, as grandfathers and grandmothers, they travel generationally.
They don't just stay with us.
We all have to live with the bad choices of people that came before us.
Now, that doesn't mean children bear the guilt of our parents' sin, but it does mean we live in the brokenness
of our parents' decisions.
Think about this.
How have the choices of your parents or grandparents or family members affected your life?
Now, we don't spend a lot of time maybe thinking about this, but the way your family dealt with money, the way your family dealt with conflict, the way your family coped with issues, maybe drinking alcohol or using drugs, maybe we don't talk about
bad things.
Maybe we stuff things in the car.
Maybe we yell and we rage and all these patterns you've inherited.
You've watched them bobble in your family.
They've been normalized for you.
That's how it is.
That's how families do things.
You don't realize how much the sins of the Father move from one generation to the next.
Part of the thoughtful process as a Christian is what patterns that
that don't honor God, we're present in my family.
And how do I break through those?
Now, this does not mean that children bear the responsibility of their parents.
And no, this idea of a father's sins.
And so now the child is guilty and condemned and cursed before God, the generational curses.
We don't see that idea in the Bible.
You see the book of Jeremiah, the book of Ezekiel talk about a certain saying that the people of Israel used to have
that when parents eat sour grapes, their kids' teeth are set on edge.
The idea was, if a parent sins, then all the guilt of that sin falls on the next generation, that they're responsible for the bad sin, and God said, no, no, no, that's not how it goes.
He says this to the Prophet Jeremiah, in those days, people will no longer say that parents have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.
Instead, everyone will die for their own sin.
Whoever eats sour grapes, their own teeth will be set on
edge.
Absalom is suffering because of the sin of his father, but he's not responsible for the sin of his father.
He's responsible for his own sin.
And so as parents, we have to work that out before God, God, forgive me for what I've done and help me heal from what I've received from my parents and help me to pass along something different.
And this entire process is important for us as New Testament Christians.
You see, when we ask
God to adopt us as a son or a daughter.
And then we sin and do something stupid.
How does God see us?
Well, the Bible actually tells us in Hebrews chapter 12.
So I'm gonna ask you, turn to Hebrews chapter 12.
This is such an important idea.
If you've given your life to Jesus, if you've trusted him for your salvation and then you sin, how does God treat you?
Does he undo the adoption?
Does he erase your name out of his book?
Hebrews chapter 12 says it this way.
Hebrews chapter 12 verse five.
Have you completely forgotten this word of encouragement that addresses you as a father addresses his son?
It says, my son don't like light of the Lord's discipline and don't lose heart when he rebukes you because the Lord disciplines the one he loves and he chastens everyone he accepts as his son.
Endure hardship as discipline.
God is treating you as children.
For what children are not disciplined by their father, and if you are not disciplined and everyone undergoes discipline, then you're not legitimate, not true sons and daughters at all.
Moreover, we have all had human fathers who disciplined us and we respected them for it.
How much more should we submit to the father of our spirits and live?
They disciplined us for a little while as they thought best, but God disciplines us for our good in order that we may share in His holiness.
Now pay attention to verse 11.
No discipline seems pleasant at the time, but painful.
Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it.
The discipline of God is meant to hurt so that it can heal.
It's meant to convict and make us think and stir up so our hearts can be
retrained to break old patterns.
And I just say, well, I do this because my dad did it and my mom did it, my grandfather did it, my grandmother did it.
No, I don't want to use alcohol to medicate my pain.
I don't want to just say it like I want to say it because I know my words said an anger can hurt people.
I don't want to stuff issues under the rug just because my family did because I realized given enough time, it makes it even worse.
God.
retrain me, re-teach me.
I don't wanna just ask, how have the sins of others affected me?
I wanna ask, how have my sins affected others?
How have my sins affected me?
How have my sins affected you?
And we begin to ask those questions.
You see, this is one of the safest environments for us to deal with all of our stuff before God, who's not gonna undo our adoption and not write us off and say, I love you enough.
to provide a painful discipline that's gonna produce something beautiful in the end.
And we understand the love of God like that.
Then we don't misunderstand his consequence, like he must reject me.
He must not love me.
He must have cursed me.
No, if you are in Christ, you are his beloved son or daughter, and that's something you can celebrate, no matter what happens in your life, no matter what you do.
And so we see David model this.
Again, walking out of Jerusalem, humble, open, not blaming, not making excuses, not fighting for control, not trying to change the narrative, not trying to say, well, he's worse than me.
He's like, I'm guilty.
I deserve this.
And yet I know God's grace can bring me back.
And so I offer my life to him.
And so the lesson for David in this story is passivity hasn't priced, but when discipline comes, don't fight it.
Two lessons from Absalom, the first is this.
Don't let your anger turn to bitterness.
One of the most important questions you can ask in your life is, what am I doing with my anger?
Anger is a normal human emotion.
When you get hurt, when your expectations aren't met, when you're disappointed, anger is the normal human response.
The Bible doesn't say, don't get angry.
No, the Bible says this, in your anger, do not sin.
Don't let the sun go down while you're still angry.
Do not give the devil a foothold.
This describes two types of anger.
In your anger, when you get angry, whether it's the rage, the explosive anger, or the quiet anger, that slow resentment, that quiet, quiet anger that leads to bitterness when you don't deal with it.
You see, that's what resentment and bitterness are a result of, anger that stirs, that festers under the service because you don't address it.
You don't talk about it.
You don't deal with it.
We saw that happen in Apslam's life.
And Ephesians says, don't give the devil a foothold.
Anger is a foothold.
Anger not dealt with in the right way creates a foothold that creates a stronghold.
And once anger becomes a stronghold in your life and turns to bitterness, well, look at what Hebrews says about that.
See to it that no one falls short of the grace of God that no bitter root grows up to cause trouble and defile many.
In other words,
Be careful that your anger doesn't turn to bitterness when you take that anger and you rehearse what that person did to you and you think about all the bad things you want to happen to them.
And vengeance makes you feel that rush of dopamine that you're the victim and they're the villain and you're the hero and if they suffer, you can celebrate.
If they fail, you can't wait to see them fail and go, I knew they were a fraud and it feels so good to watch them fail.
Be very careful that the person
that you despise, that you don't become.
You see, Absom starts out with righteous anger, justice.
His sister was raped and no one did anything about it.
And he hated his brother.
And he despised his father.
But he wasn't careful to watch over his soul.
So his soul is consumed by this idea of vengeance and bitterness.
And in the next chapter, we're gonna watch him.
sexually assault 10 women.
The very thing that drove him that made him so angry, he became that person.
The brother who plotted, he became the brother who plotted in a way that's gonna lead to tens of thousands of people dying.
And that's why this is such an important cautionary tale.
So often people don't realize that when you live in bitterness and resentment, it's like eating rat poison and waiting for the rat to die.
It's killing you.
It's destroying you.
Absalom loses himself in this process because he's not conscious of his anger.
The second thing we see in the cautionary tale here is pride, cloud, your vision.
Absalom is good looking.
He's articulate.
He knows how to be a posse.
He believes his own hype.
He believes the 50 guys who run out in front of him.
Absalom is the man.
Absalom should be king.
He's a better choice than his dad.
Pride keeps taking them higher and higher, and there's this caution we see again in the Bible.
Don't let your gifts take you higher than your character can sustain you.
Make sure that your inside is always bigger than your outside, because there's always this temptation to go, well, if I'm really good at this, I don't have to deal with this stuff here.
I don't have to worry about integrity or humility or
faith in God.
If the outside's big and people love what they see, then I live for the approval of others.
And my identity comes from them.
And again, the more disconnected this is, the greater the fall that's going to happen.
Listen, if you ever want to see this dichotomy between the image of what people project and how they actually live, I have this way for you to figure this out.
Go become a licensed therapist and then Google all your clients.
Because the social media version of them is amazing, but you know all the stuff.
and that difference is vast.
And we live in a world that looks at image, it fuels pride.
Look at me, like me.
Repost me.
Do all that stuff because it's all about me and the Bible offers us a different way to see it.
Romans 12, don't think you are better than you really are.
Be honest in your evaluation of yourself.
Because
Even from the very first rebellion in the Garden of Eden, that whisper of Satan into Adam and Eve's ear.
Did God really say?
God doesn't want you to eat the fruit because he knows when you eat the fruit, you'll be like him.
He's scared of you.
He's jealous of you.
Wouldn't it be better if you did what you thought was best instead of what he thought was best?
Does he really care about you?
You know, those whispers, those whispers that happened around the workplace, you know,
Honestly, you would be a much better boss than the boss we have.
There's whispers in your group.
You should be leading that group, not them.
You know more about the Bible than they do.
Why are they the leader?
There's conversation about who should be making financial decisions in our family.
You're much better equipped than they are.
There's whispers of the enemy that make you think, you know, I should be the leader.
It should be, I should be the one calling the shots and pulling the strings.
Cause I see the flaws of all the people around me.
But somehow I can't see my own flaws.
And this is the danger of rebellion.
It's so easy to see the flaws.
It was so easy for Absalom to see all the flaws of his dad and not see any of his own and not realize who he was becoming in that process and pride clouds our vision.
And this is why we need mentors in our life.
This is why we're committed to make disciples and
and have mentors and spiritual fathers and mothers invest in the next generation.
Here's what Peter says, in the same way you who are younger must accept the authority of the elders and all who dress yourselves in humility as you relate to one another.
For God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.
Absom and David both sinned.
But David is humble and repentant in his sin.
There's a level of regret that wants to be right about it, and Absalom can only see the faults of the people around him.
Now listen, notice the Bible doesn't say honor your parents if they're perfect.
Listen to your pastor if he's flawless.
Follow your boss if he always makes the right decision.
That's not what it says.
Honor your parents because there's a promise
When you learn to submit your life to someone else, even though they're flawed because you realize you are also flawed, everyone has something to learn from someone else all the time.
And as the people of God want to be thoughtful about that, right?
So.
Don't be the person that says, I can do this on my own.
I don't need other people in my life.
Because that ends poorly next week.
We'll see how poorly it ends for Absalom.
So it's easy to look at the story and go, this is not gonna end well.
That little kiss thing and the father and son not talk about the issues, all the lies, the deception, the flattery, it's not gonna end well and it's gonna end with Absalom's death next week.
Sorry, I ruined it for you.
But that's how rebellion always ends.
There's a way that seems right to a person and it leads to death.
When Adam and Eve rebelled against God, it seemed like such a small thing.
It led to their death.
and we're about to take part in communion.
And communion is the answer to our rebellion.
Adam and Eve weren't the only people that sinned.
When their sin occurred, it affected us.
Here's what the book of Romans says.
Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man and death through sin, and this way death came to all people because all have sin.
Adam and Eve's rebellion listening to the whisper of the enemy.
Adam's passivity, letting the serpent talk to his wife and not say any word and watching her get the fruit, cause them to walk out of Eden into exile and led to their deaths and sin and death affecting all of us.
Sin and death has come to all of us.
God did not create us so that we would die.
He created us as eternal beings.
And so we read in the Bible that
God's response to human rebellion was to send His Son Jesus, heaven to earth, to crush the head of the serpent, to die for the sins of all humanity, my sins and your sins.
For all those moments we're walking out of a moment, we're like, I can't believe I did that.
Is there a way back?
Jesus says, yes, I am the way.
I am the truth.
I am the life.
And no one gets back to the Father except
Through me, that's why he came.
And then Roman says this about the sacrifice of Jesus.
But the gift is not like the trespass.
For if many died by the trespass of one man, how much more did God's grace and the gift that came by grace of one man, Jesus Christ, overflow to many?
We are recipients of the greatest gift that's ever been given.
God's only son, Jesus.
came to forgive us for our rebellion and our sin and give us a way back to the Father.
And as Christians, we celebrate this in communion, taking this bread that symbolizes his body, taking this cup that symbolizes his blood and just saying to God, thank you for your son Jesus, thank you for a way back.
And so if you don't have community elements, I'm gonna ask you to raise your hand, we'll provide them for you.
This is just a reminder for those of you who are new or visiting.
This is not for everyone, this is for those
who are Christians who've made a decision to put their faith and trust in Jesus to forgive their sins, but I wanna just say this, if you're here and you're like, I'm not right with God, I'm not, you've been adopted by God, I don't have a relationship with God, but he's only a prayer away, that in this moment right now, even as you just hit here, you acknowledge, and I've done some stupid things in my life, and maybe you recognize it spiritually, you've been passive, you just sort of don't really wanna think about your relationship with God, but in this moment,
He has your undivided attention.
Well, right now, you could pray a simple prayer that sounds like this.
God, I'm a sinner and I need a Savior.
I need forgiveness.
I need a way back.
Thank you for sending your son Jesus to die in my place.
I receive his sacrifice for forgiveness.
I repent of my sins.
I believe I put my faith in trust in you for my life and I will follow you.
It's not about the perfect words.
It's about a heart posture that's ready.
to submit to his authority and to receive his great love and to find your way back home.
And if you're ready to pray a prayer like that, then you can take communion with us today.
So here's how we take communion here at Calvary.
We give you a moment to reflect.
If there's a certain part of this message that struck your heart, spend a moment thinking about that and praying, just Jesus, we're gonna give you just a moment of quiet reflection.
Then we're gonna sing a song over you.
And then we're gonna come back and we're gonna take the bread.
I'm gonna take the cup, and we're gonna celebrate our Savior, Jesus.
Let's take that moment of quiet reflection now, and then we'll come take the cup together.
rebellion caused this separation between us and God.
This relationship where Adam and Eve could walk in the cool of the day and God would walk with him.
Jesus came to give that back to us.
So on the night he was arrested, he took bread and he broke and he said, this is my body given for you.
Let's eat this bread together and remember our Savior.
And on that same night, he took the copy.
He said, this cup is the new covenant, my blood, it's given for you.
Every time you drink it, drink it and remembrance of me.
Let's remember Jesus together.
and church, let's stand together and let's give our Savior Jesus a standing ovation for His goodness and His grace and His love and for pursuing us.
And let's respond to communion with our grateful songs of worship because He is worthy of our prayers.
Let's worship.
In the morning that you rose, all of heaven held its breath, till that sun was roofed forth,
Enjoy worshiping with you guys this weekend.
If you're in need of prayer before you go, please come forward.
We have a prayer team that is ready to pray with you.
If not, enjoy the rest of your Labor Day weekend and an extra day off.
We'll see you again next week.
Bye.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352.
So you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.